[MUSIC]
I'm Alex Bowers, LearnToProgram.tv.
And in this video, I'll be talking more
about
the return statement, which are used
within functions in Python.
So, I'm just going to create a new file.
And I'll just call this return [SOUND] py.
[SOUND].
Now once this is done we're just gonna
create a very basic function which
won't do anything really, except for it'll
have a value which will, we'll be
returning.
Okay, so if we just create a function, and
let's call this a function.
[SOUND] And then just return.
[SOUND] Just return hello and that'll work
fine.
And now if we just do print, function.
Now if we run this,
you'll be able to tell what I'll return
here is
hello, so this will return a string of
hello because
we were setting as a string, however, if
we don't
actually return anything, so if we just
have return blank.
Then [INAUDIBLE] return something called
non.
Now non is a prebuilt feature of, of
Python,
and quite a lot of languages call it null,
instead.
It just means that there's no actual value
sent, but, and the significance of this is
that if you actually create a function,
you have to have a return sent.
Now, if you don't actually want to return
anything, then you just return non.
And you can do a check for that, quite
simply with the function,
and by doing an if statement with the
function, or something along those lines.
So a return statement is always required.
You can't actually get around using them,
if you don't
have them, then it, doesn't work properly
and as you can
see, we get a syntax error here, and I'll
run this
and I'll show you, there we go expected an
indented block.
Because it's not actually ended the
function.
And so expect it to be part of
the actual function, so, return actually
ends the function.
It tells it that it's time to exudative to
whatever is after that, doesn't need to
actually carry on.
[SOUND] So, if we were to run this again,
you can see that now
there's no syntax error, and we can return
any type of volume we want.
[SOUND] So we can return integers.
We can return [SOUND] we can
return lists, if we choose to.
We can return absolutely any type of data
that we wish,
and we can all interact with this data in
different ways.
So we could have it stored as a variable.
[SOUND] In which case [SOUND] here
we'll have the variable now is
equal to none, so if we did if.
If we did that sorry [SOUND] sorry, none
is a keyword.
So you don't need to put quotes around it,
and you can see that, that's true, so that
variable is now stored in the actual, is
the
word, stored in the word none, body
structure none.
Okay, so as you can see because we require
the return
statement, you have to actually have it
built into your function.
And we'll get more onto how to use it
properly, later on within
the course, however, just remember that if
you don't have it, then that
will be a, a huge disadvantage because it
does mean that your function
isn't working properly, and you will have
to rewrite part of the code, probably.
So, thank you for watching, and I will see
you soon.
[MUSIC]